everyone welcome back to another
hardware news recap for the week for
this one we have a good amount of news
but the number one item for us is the
AMD 3990 X that we have managed to
secure from another reviewer it's been
overnight shift so that we can hopefully
get it in time for some liquid-nitrogen
live streams with Joe step on Z so Joe
step on Z will be visiting he's from
bearded hardware he's been here before
and we're doing streams on Sunday of
this weekend the time for that will be 1
p.m. est Sunday for the 3990 Xtreme if
you want to watch us lap the 3970 X
that's already up other things to talk
about for this week's recap include AMD
has apparently lost the battle against
Intel that's gonna be a fun story
preservation of old flash games and
animations and video g-force now exiting
beta and stadia being a good marketing
point for it
Intel reportedly preparing cascade like
refreshes and aim the x86 CPU market
share games before that this video is
brought to you by EVGA SRT X 20 atti XE
ultra the 20 80 TI XE ultra is what we
use in our CPU reviews to avoid GPU
bottlenecks the XE ultra uses hydraulic
dynamic bearing fans for reduce the
noise features a RT X support for DX our
titles and uses a massive 2.75 slot
cooler the cooler design allows the fans
that's been slower and quieter while
syncing heat further leveraging a mix of
l-shaped and traditional fins to
maximize airflow or contact
learn more at the link in the
description below so the first one is
that 39 90 X story well we were probably
pushing this video Friday night we're
filming at Friday and that means you'll
have time hopefully to catch the stream
Sunday Joe has brought a few things he's
brought a 39 70 X and we're going to be
lapping that so you'll be able to get a
fun CPU lapping video where we basically
will be sending off the top of a HS get
it down to bare copper and then sanding
down his LM 2 pots as well so we get
better contact for liquid nitrogen stuff
that said the original plan was to also
overclock that CPU this weekend but it
looks like we might be changed that we
knew the 39 DX was launching what we
weren't sure about was if it be possible
to get one in time for Joe's already
planned visit so I
you're looking around a lot considering
a day trip to Micro Center four and a
half hours away and back we did end up
getting another youtuber who could send
it to us and so you can guess who that
is
as stated but yeah we'll have that on
loan and then we'll do a review of the
CPU as well okay so the leading story is
coverage of some questionable writing so
AMD has lost apparently and Daniel
Newman the principal analyst at Futurama
research has attempted a hot take and an
opinion piece over at Market Watch
there's a lot to unpack in the article
which for the most part does have some
actually demonstrable false statements
in it but we'll just go with a few of
our favorites sort of like a greatest
hits of the article so the title reads
why am these best days are behind it and
it should really tell the readers
everything that they need to know but
the following paragraphs are still kind
of fun to look at we could make the
argument that am these worst days are
behind it not its best days because you
know there was a period where Andy was
nearly bankrupt after buying ATI it was
unable to produce a competitive GPU
that's sort of changed not they still
have a lot of issues there but had
trouble with GPUs it had bulldozer and
piledriver and all these failed CPUs
that were just objectively bad and also
by the way it was involved in a
class-action lawsuit that it's recently
settled so Andy didn't really have great
days maybe about six years ago so more
like worse days are behind it there's
one more point to to pile onto that
which is that AMD at one point had to
sell its campus its own campus and lease
it back from the new owner of the campus
because it needed a temporary cash
injection that's how bad it was for Andy
it was very close to not existing
anymore so the subheading reads AMD had
a shot to catch Intel and blew it
so Andy doesn't really need to directly
catch Intel it's readily apparent that
the disparity in the size of the two
chip makers is lost on market watch here
and he is accompanied with a fifty 9.04
billion dollar market cap Intel runs 285
point five five billion so and he can't
catch Intel in three years time
more specifically not inside of the
18-month window of quote when its chip
making rival was wounded as Market Watch
puts it so as we talked about last week
and as we further elaborate on later
here Andy continues to win back x86 CPU
market share
Andy is holding both a technology and a
process note lead via its partnerships
over Intel TSMC is making it all look
bad these days and furthermore the
market watch comments that epic should
quote have made significant gains and
servers and that AMD quote made only a
few small dent in Intel's business are
not really accurate something to
remember here
AMD first of all Intel is a beast and
Andy doesn't have an easy fight and
ultimately what we want to see is Intel
now put something out that's directly
competitive with and these desktop stuff
because we want them to fight directly
head-to-head so both the companies
really need to have their best foot
forward for everybody but something to
remember here is that AMD has
effectively gone from zero market share
in server to five percent in a couple of
years and five percent might sound small
but considering going from nearly zero
for a company the size of AMD as
compared to the size of Intel that 5%
means a lot more for AMD than it does
for Intel and so from a these standpoint
that's a pretty significant growth so
mark your watch fails to keep a few of
these things in mind and the operates at
a fraction of Intel's R&D budget I
consider that Intel earns more in a
single quarter than AMD net in an entire
year and you begin to see the uphill
battle that AMD faces and just like in
benchmarks this is in a lot of ways
about relative comparisons not
necessarily absolute comparisons because
you're looking at relative gains in this
instance in the market but just in
technology - so these wins mean a lot
for a relatively small company like AMD
its earnings in 2019 illustrate that
effectively mark
watch continued to say quote now Intel
is shoring up production announcing the
pricing updating its data center chips
introducing 5g pcs okay and expanding to
be far more than a chip company Intel's
not really it's not really been a it's
been more of a manufacturer than
anything since beginning it was founded
as a manufacturing company but anyway
Intel apparently shoring up production
for over a year now and it still hasn't
rectified its pervasive 40 nanometers
shortage in fact some of its customers
are predicting those shortages will
persist for most of 2020 like HP
Enterprise despite and these own
troubles anticipating demand and
securing wafers it continues to ship
products when Intel can't and tsmc
is is the limiting factor there since
it's splitting its wait for someone
equally between his customers
additionally Intel's lower pricing and
quote updated datacenter chips or a
direct response to Andy's epic and
thread Ripper in a lot of ways these
chips might have existed anyway but the
pricing wouldn't have been where it is
today so Neumann extolled Intel for
being back on track but ultimately it's
got plenty of its own issues like Intel
security vulnerabilities which we have
covered almost weekly in hardware news
at this point new ones every couple
months and then follow-ups to those
regularly so you can ask the server
vendors how they've dealt with
mitigations on a lot of those and that
another quote here
I believe Intel is now the firm better
positioned to deliver the sales and
profitability investors are looking for
that's bad news for those holding AMD
stock and many have yet to realize just
how bad it will be so this from the same
writer who warned investors to be
skeptical of anthea stock price
last year when it was trading for $30
per share by the way it's now trading
for about $50 per share as of this
writing so the very least market watch
is probably used to eating its own words
by now now Andy has a lot of trouble its
GPU department really isn't doing it any
favors right now and just just kind of
floundering around making the rest of
Andy look that the CPU department is
doing well but it can't stop obviously
Xen to produce greater gains than we
expected
but overall as then matures and these
potentially going to end up in a
situation where Intel was a couple years
ago where every CPU has a risk of
potentially being unexcited so we'll see
how Andy deals with that perhaps it's
using the chip approach the things are
different these days perhaps it's able
to maintain greater gains per
architecture that Intel was able to once
it started hitting that 4,000 series on
beyond where you go to 4790k 6700 K 77
RK they all sort of felt the same the
questions going to be whether AMD can
keep ahead of that and prevent it from
happening to it as well as a in these
process matures because jumping from
bulldozer to Xen obviously easy mode to
get the gains as compared to going from
Xen to does n3 where Andy's already done
so much optimization so all this to say
and the has a lot of struggle and if
Margot wanted to write about that
there's a lot of really interesting
stories in there that they could talk
about from a technology standpoint but
it's a market analysis website and they
sort of missed all of it
flashpoint is up next so for those who
cut their computing teeth on CRT
monitors and beige-colored everything
you likely remember the advent of a
technology called flash even at a time
when it was a macro media product and
before that a futurewave product and I
guess later on an Adobe acquired product
when Adobe bought half the Internet but
it was a different time so once upon a
time the internet was made up of boring
static web pages and it required flash
to add multimedia and interactivity for
things such as video audio animations
and games even YouTube used flash and
it's early days for compressed video
flash is set to go end-of-life this year
the fact that it's still alive is
probably a bit of a surprise for a lot
of people but it's been phased out and
as the deprecated platform has been lawn
outshined by newer web api's and html5
flash has been dying a slow death with
browser support fading as it becomes all
but non-existent search engines like
Google won't even index results with
flash content anymore
even Adobe more or less washed its hands
of Flash when it introduced Adobe
animates it's been one slow nail in the
coffin after another for flash so as
with many technologies that vanish from
the Internet
all history from a different time of
computing vanishes with them love it or
hate it flash did define an Internet era
and when it dies so to do thousands of
games and animations that were so
popular at the time so that's what blue
Maxima is trying to prevent with
flashpoint flashpoint to date has
scraped together an Internet Archive of
38,000 games and 2400 animations
flashpoint uses an open-source launcher
and a few tricks to emulate old flash
browser games instead of running flash
natively the launcher currently comes
packaged either as a standalone
application where you download the games
you want to play them locally or as a
complete package where all of the games
are playable offline since we're here we
might as well also direct your attention
to another flash preservation project
called ruffle which is ongoing if any of
this stuff has sparked nostalgia and you
and you want to visit some of the old
games you played and video g4s now is
finally exiting its beta in the next
story so we were talking about this at
the office the other day and Google
stadia was probably the best marketing
that Nvidia could have had for a GeForce
now GeForce now has been around forever
it used to be called grid back in the
day and during that time we actually
covered it at a few locations where
Nvidia had small servers at trade shows
and would run on-site demonstrations of
game streaming these were never
particularly impressive but it was a
very interesting technology at the time
it was also very new Google stadia
obviously dropped the ball in
significant ways with its own launch
attempting a similar approach to gaming
but NVIDIA has got a lot more experience
in this space behind it and certainly
although Google has money that's not the
only thing you need to compete in the
cloud computing space GeForce now
officially left beta this week it was a
somewhat quiet launch compared to how
Nvidia usually prefers to launch
products and services with leather
jackets blazing while it's already being
compared favorably to stadia it's worth
noting that this service has been in
beta for probably about seven years now
since about 2013 GeForce now was born
out of the ashes of that grid beta we
discussed which was intended as a game
streaming service specifically for
shield devices and video grid never
really took off and it
into g-force now over time g-force now
was once again being aimed at shield
devices at first
leaving beta in 2015 after some flops it
reentered beta again in 2017 with the
goal of overhauling it for the PC gaming
crowd at large three years later and
video seems confident the service is
ready for primetime despite some initial
reports that suggest otherwise
NVIDIA has had a lot of time to build
d-force now as a service and it shows in
the many ways it differentiates itself
from stadia the service currently boasts
a substantial library of supported games
compared to stadia which is slowly
launching more by the way if you'd
forgotten about it
it offers a free tier I'll be it with a
limited time one hour session and an
undercut stadiums pricing at $5 per
month and perhaps the most advantageous
aspect is that users are afforded access
to actual graphics settings for every
game something that's extremely limited
with stadia and in some instances
completely unavailable GeForce now
basically fires up a virtual machine and
it loads the launcher of your choice so
Steam is supported epic is supported
battlenet or whatever it's called these
days so settings from the respective
versions of those games should remain
intact in theory they shouldn't be
special for GeForce now it's as we
understand it's sort of a BYOD model and
should this wage some of the concerns
about game ownership in the long run run
that we had with stadia specifically
where you start worrying about if the
service dies what happens to your
investment in the games library as for
how the hardware is divvied up in
addition to the graphics settings users
also get access to Turing or Pascal
based GeForce now servers the way this
works back in the day was Nvidia charged
different amounts or was planning to
charge different amounts per month based
on the hardware you wanted to use so if
you wanted to use a 10 60 in the cloud
it was cheaper than a 1080 in the cloud
or whatever they however they may have
phrased it but that was the goal so now
the way it's sorted is that there's
ray-tracing available even for those
pain the $5 per month tier for the
founder subscription processor wise
GeForce now servers only identify the
CPU as a very plain intel CC 150 the
intel CC 150 is completely shrouded in
mystery
at this point in an official context
nothing about it is congruent with
intel's past naming and product
nomenclature and rumors on well reddit
so you know but rumors on reddit
currently speculate that it's an
eight-core sixteen thread part based on
intel's coffee leak line the chip sports
the same pin count and the same
capacitor layout as those processors and
it is supposedly fitted into the LGA
1151 socket so that might make sense
GeForce now also seems to offer many
ways to tweak the bit rate and the frame
rate for streaming and there's a current
maximum resolution of just 1080p so
stadia does have that over GeForce now
right now Nvidia is launching the
service with the following supported
platforms there's Windows Mac OS and
Android with a future chromebook support
as well those still exist I guess while
Nvidia seems to be putting its best foot
forward and combining the bring your own
games model with the pay for streaming
or games as a service model the natural
strengths that NVIDIA has is an
infrastructure obviously because it
makes the hardware or at least most of
it the most relevant part of it so it
still has one serious hurdle and that
would be the one that all the gaming
cloud vendors have which is convincing
gamers that streaming games is better
than playing locally and for existing PC
game enthusiasts that's a tough sell
especially once you consider latency and
that's what we need to look at if we get
a chance to benchmark this one next up
intel is reportedly preparing a cascade
lake refresh according to a report
coming out of CRN intel is apparently
preparing to respond to andy's current
epic server lineup that is epic roam
Intel's current server offerings are the
Cascade Lakes Xeon family the rumored
response would come in the form of a
cascade Lake refresh line lest you get
your lakes confused this refresh would
exist separately from Cooper Lake which
is intended to be another 14 nanometer
plus plus update for the second half of
2020 the new cascade lake refresh is
supposedly set to launch as soon as
February 23rd and evidence of the new
chips has surfaced in recent Intel micro
up code updates as well per CRN's
reporting
intel's partners have stated that intel
has been sharing fab capacity with
current to cascade lake parts in order
to ramp up for the cascade lake refresh
which may have contributed to the recent
to Zeon shortages the refreshed cascade
Lake parks would seemingly top out at 28
cores a four core upgrade from the
current lineup they would also include
an iterative frequency bump and denser
cache and more importantly and perhaps
more exciting is the idea that Intel
would be competing on the basis of price
and features both of which the chip
maker has been notoriously greedy with
in the server segment in the past
refreshed cascade Lake parts would
target the mainstream and value oriented
server market and tied in to all over
until Cooper Lake arrives which should
address the high end server market
next up am these x86 CPU market share
gains continued Andy recently shared
some details from the report compiled by
mercury research which essentially
confirms Andy's narrative that it
continues to gain market share across
x86 CPU segments Andy has also achieved
some of its best market share
performance since 2013 which Lisa Hsu
CEO obviously hinted at and these
earnings report last week the figures
that we have excluded console and or
semi-custom
and IOT data but here's what they look
like while Andy's quarter-over-quarter
gains are negligible in most cases and
these year-over-year gains begin to
illustrate the success of risin 3000 and
epic roam proving that both chip lineups
continued to become more popular with
customers and OEMs alike Andy still
faces an uphill battle in the service
space where Intel Xeon tentacles are
firmly entrenched Andy continues to chip
away at Intel share and Andy's
confidence it says that it can achieve
double-digit share by mid 2020 make no
mistake Andy has a long way to go here
however Andy continues to pick its shots
wisely and its current epic 7002 Series
has already proven to be a worthy tool
and prying away lucrative market share
from Intel he's already gone on the
offensive with price cuts and that
rumored cascade Lake refresh Andy's
upcoming epic Milan based on 700 plus
and n3 should ratchet up the pressure
further and these biggest gain here for
these numbers is mobile and it comes
just before and these new rise in 4,000
series mobile processors will make
landfall
Andy has made significant gains with
OEMs and AMD powered notebooks
and it shows and according to mercury
AMD took fifteen point five percent
share of the cpu pi in 2019 averaged
across all segments in terms of our own
user base we've noticed upwards of 93
percent of you are purchasing and the
over Intel via affiliate links these
days which is about a one to one flip
it's complete inverse from what we saw
about maybe four years ago when it was
around that percentage for Intel through
our our links and not AMD next up is as
rock hitting record revenue and citing
strong demand for AMD as ROC reported a
record year for 2019 bringing in 443
million dollars for the year a 31
percent year-over-year increase for vs.
additionally according to a report from
industry profits digit times as ROC
expects 2020 to bring higher revenues
and as rock tributes this resurgence
specifically to Andy part as rock cites
a strong demand for the AMD platform in
its quotes and sees this trend only
growing in 2020 as the company gears up
for rising 4000 series motherboards that
will be supported eventually and
chipsets later in the year another
factor underpinning as Rock's recent
earnings and success is that it's
relatively new graphics card business
turned profitable in 2019 where the
company has been shipping the rx 5000
series GPU holding cards asrock has also
invested heavily in penetrating the US
and European markets and getting out of
a primarily Asia market focus which has
expanded its reach as well finally
Massachusetts may become the first state
passing right to repair laws and if you
know who he is
Louis Rothman has been talking about
right to repair non-stop for a long time
now but particularly in the last couple
of new monster certainly the last few
weeks as he's gone to some of the public
hearings and other meetings to try and
speak on behalf of right to repair so
and if you don't know any of that you
should go watch his channel because it's
interesting stuff Massachusetts is a
historical battleground for right to
repair laws as the state has previously
championed some of the most consumer
centric repair Legislature pertaining
zuv vehicles and that's legislature that
would go on to become a national
standard last October lawmakers in
it's how the hearing on the state's
digital right to repair act the bill if
passed would require manufacturers to
render diagnostic service and repair
guides while also making tools and parts
available for sale manufacturers would
also be barred from blocking repairs on
a software level or potentially a
firmware level where the chips kill
themselves when they notice that you're
trying to fix them this past week marked
a very important milestone for the
proposed legislature as it cleared the
committee which means that this is the
furthest that any potential bill has
ever made it for at least right to
repair the bill still needs to clear the
house in the Senate in Massachusetts but
at this point things look good and a
statement to mother board Kyle Wiens CEO
of iFixit seemed optimistic quote if
leadership allows this to have a floor
vote this will pass this is the closest
we've ever gotten
said the iFixit CEO the digital right to
repair act has enjoyed unusual
bipartisan support in Massachusetts and
it's modeled after the automobile right
to repair laws passed in 2012 that
prompted the automobile industry to sign
a memorandum of understanding meaning
manufacturers would honor the bill in
all 50 states that's the effect right to
repair activists are hoping
Massachusetts digital rights repair act
will have on electronics companies and
if you watch any of Lewis's coverage of
of some of these various councils and
groups discussing the right to repair
bills one of the things that I've
noticed as a trend in them is a lot of
times he'll get questions when they do
QA with an expert which would be Louis
rossmann a lot of times when he gets
questions from them one of them will be
has this passed anywhere else have other
states done something like this because
they want to model what they're looking
at after the other states and that makes
it tough so having Massachusetts or
anyone else start passing this type of
law and actually making right to repair
a thing for electronics that would be a
big milestone that would encourage other
states to do it too because politicians
are afraid to do things so hopefully
that's good news obviously we think that
you should be able to repair your stuff
lewis rossmann made a I'll take his
analogy that I think you might have
taken from someone else I'm not sure but
the point he made about all this that
really seemed to click with politicians
was you have a car and maybe your car
breaks down you've got options you can
go to the dealer who's certified and
potentially sold you the vehicle you can
go to an independent repair shop or you
can go to your neighbor and get it
repaired and that's what we'd like to
see with electronics as well so that
especially with a company like Apple but
in general actually evj is excluded here
because they don't do warranty void
stickers but in general a lot of
companies that have warranty voiding
programs even in the u.s. that they try
to enforce for things like simple
repairs or if their home page
replacement whatever it may be obviously
this type of bill would protect you in
instances where a company might
otherwise try to force you to just buy a
new product which is just overall bad
anyway and is wasteful so hopefully this
will help push a change to move away
from some of the planned obsolescence
and the buy and replace nature of
electronics these days which is not only
wasteful for the consumers and their
money but wasteful in terms of resources
because all of those rare earth metals
do have to be dug out of the ground and
over time that'll add to the cost of the
products too so it looks good
and we did encourage you check out leoz
for Osmonds coverage because he's done
great work on this and we definitely
fully support him on his efforts for
right to repair that's it for this news
video thanks for watching subscribe for
more go to store documents access net to
help us out directly or
patreon.com/scishow and access check
back for the 3990 Xtreme and we'll see
you all next time
[Music]